docs/Projects/posts/Sound_Demixing.md, before:

---
draft: false 
date: 2023-05-15 

hide:
#   - navigation
  - toc
categories:
  - competitions
  - audio

authors:
  - thanatoz

links:
  - Projects/index.md

title: Sound demixing challenge.
description: Using neural networks to solve the source separation problem. These audio inverse problems are mainly for sound demixing and cinematic demixing challenge. 
---

<style>
p{
text-align: justify;
text-justify: inter-word;
}

.MathJax {
font-size: 2.1em;
}
</style>

<center>

# Sound demixing challenge

#### <p style="text-align: center;">Tushar Dhyani</p>
<!-- <p style="text-align: center;">Institut für Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung, University of Stuttgart</p> -->
</center>

<center>
<img class="center-block" style="max-width:750px;" src="https://ik.imagekit.io/tushard/Personal/projects/sound_demixing_banner_SE0lHotR6?updatedAt=1702507794406">
</center>

### Problems:

> This project was a part of Sound demixing challenge organized by Sony on [AIcrowd](https://www.aicrowd.com/challenges/sound-demixing-challenge-2023). The report to this challenge is available [here](https://doi.org/10.3389/frsip.2021.808395).

Sound demixing or source separation problem is the task of separating an audio file into its components. In this project I tackled only two of other possible use-cases for this: music and movies. Music source separation is the task of extracting vocals and other musical intruments used in the song. To understand with an audio example, here are the components of  

| Source   | Sample 1                                                                                 | Sample 2                                                                      |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mixture  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/mixture.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/mixture.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | 
| Vocals  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/vocals.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/vocals.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | 
| Drums  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/drums.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/drums.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | 
| Bass  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/bass.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/bass.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> |  

### Method

### Results

### Rankings:

Commit message:

Some minor changes to the content

docs/Projects/posts/Sound_Demixing.md, after:

---
draft: false 
date: 2023-05-15 

hide:
#   - navigation
  - toc
categories:
  - competitions
  - audio

authors:
  - thanatoz

links:
  - Projects/index.md

title: Sound demixing challenge.
description: Using neural networks to solve the source separation problem. These audio inverse problems are mainly for sound demixing and cinematic demixing challenge. 
---

<style>
p{
text-align: justify;
text-justify: inter-word;
}

.MathJax {
font-size: 2.1em;
}
</style>

<center>

# Sound demixing challenge

#### <p style="text-align: center;">Tushar Dhyani</p>
<!-- <p style="text-align: center;">Institut für Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung, University of Stuttgart</p> -->
</center>

<center>
<img class="center-block" style="max-width:750px;" src="https://ik.imagekit.io/tushard/Personal/projects/sound_demixing_banner_SE0lHotR6?updatedAt=1702507794406">
</center>

### Problems:

> This project was a part of Sound demixing challenge organized by Sony on [AIcrowd](https://www.aicrowd.com/challenges/sound-demixing-challenge-2023). The report to this challenge is available [here](https://doi.org/10.3389/frsip.2021.808395).

Separating different sounds in a recording is called sound separation. In this project, I focused on just two uses: music and movies. When it comes to music, sound separation means pulling out voices and instruments from a song. For example, let's break down the parts of two songs that I found randomly. Thanks to the creators.

| Source   | Sound demixing sample                                                                                 | Sound demixing sample                                                                      |
|----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mixture  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/mixture.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/mixture.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | 
| Vocals  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/vocals.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/vocals.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | 
| Drums  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/drums.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/drums.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | 
| Bass  | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song1/bass.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> | <audio controls controlsList="nodownload"><source src="../sound_separ_files/song2/bass.wav" type="audio/flac"></audio> |

The challenge was broadly divided into two tracks: Music demixing (MDX) and Cinematic sound demixing (CDX) but the aim was still similar. The complexity of the problem lay in sub-problems: Labelling noise (leaderboard A), Bleeding in recording (Leaderboard B) and General source separation (Leaderboard C). But due to contraints with time and training resources, I decided to stay with the general source separation.  


### Method

This was one of the most interesting challenges that I worked on in some time. The challenge here was not to find the available research as there were quite a few that I was already aware of, but to find resources to train the model. For this, the university student resources were very helpful, so thanks to the university student body for that.

So, for the challenge, I decided to train the availble models with some modification that I will be elaborating later. But overall the idea was to find an optimal way to train the models for each track. 

I started infering the available pretrained models. For my experiments I used the following available resources.

- Demucs [v{1,2,3,4}](https://github.com/facebookresearch/demucs)
- [MDXnet](https://github.com/kuielab/mdx-net)
- [ByteSep](https://github.com/bytedance/music_source_separation)
- [Danna-sep](https://github.com/yoyololicon/danna-sep)



### Rankings:

So after the challenge, the final standing of my model were as follows for each track

<center>
<img class="center-block" style="max-width:750px;" src="https://ik.imagekit.io/tushard/Personal/projects/cdx_challenge_standing_created_FX_F8A7bi.webp?updatedAt=1702550989644">
<img class="center-block" style="max-width:750px;" src="https://ik.imagekit.io/tushard/Personal/projects/mdx_rankings_QGrmk076-.webp?updatedAt=1702551672238">

</center>
